TODOs

if input bigWigs are normalized (non-count) coverage, then display of
peaks on the multiWig tracks does not work (they are higher than the
low normalized coverage). TODO warn/error or make other bigWigs?

hg19_problems_optimized.bed file with biggest problems that have been
cut into several smaller pieces (the overall time complexity is linear
in the max problem size). For example current hg19_problems.bed has 76
problems bigger than 10e6 bases. In a few hours we could probably
convert them to about 290 problems which are all less than 10e6
bases. This would result in about a 10x speedup, since the current max
problem size is 114,547,721 = 100e6 bases.

problems[10e6 < bases, sum((bases %/% 10e6)+1)]

2017.05.08

penaltyLearning used for both separate and joint model.

predicted joint peaks in projectID/jobs/*/jobPeaks.sh files instead of
projectID/problems/*/peaks.bed.sh files -- more equal run time in
different jobs. 

plot_all.R creates a heatmap of peak counts over the genome, rather
than in the cluster tree (which was not so informative).

do not compute fisher test pvalue for large data sets.

now only need to specify PBS header in one file, create_problems_all.R

chunk plots show geom_rect for coverage, instead of geom_step which
stops with an error if there is only 1 data row in a panel.

plot_all.R should read problems/*/peaks.bed files (not too many)
rather than problems/*/jointProblems/*/peaks.bed files (way too many),
but the problem was that we need to read the likelihood for each peak
--- solved by saving predicted peaks to a data.table with a list
column for sample.

2017.02.28

create_track_hub.R creates multiWigs to display coverage overlaid with
peak predictions on the UCSC genome browser.

Various updates to coseg + PeakSegJoint (infeasible models allowed,
peak size model).

2016.11.01

PeakSegFPOP command line program stops with an error for non-integer
data, inconsistent chromStart/End.

No longer printf when NEWTON_STEPS is reached.

Table that shows problems which have no predicted peaks at all.

Test whole pipeline with (test-input.R) and without (test-noinput.R)
input samples.

New scripts convert_labels.R, create_problems_all.R,
downloadProblems.R, packages.R, pipeline.R, plot_all.R, plot_chunk.R

Move most other scripts to functions in coseg and PeakSegJoint.

2016.10.16

new scripts compute_joint_target.R and predict_problem_joint.R for
running PeakSegJoint.

labels/H3K4me3_TDH_other/McGill0016/problems/chr2:110251337-149690582/
overlapping regions -- problem in the input labels detected by
create_labels.R which now stops with an error.

feature computation command line program compute_features.R and
corresponding coseg::problem.features function.

R script train_model.R for training a model based on the target
interval.

test and implementation for samples with no labels at all -- we may
want to predict on them.

updated README with some description about how to run PeakSegFPOP on a
whole genome.

various fixes for min-less/more/env computation.

compute_coverage_target.R uses coseg::problem.target which now uses
parallel::mclapply.

2016.09.26

_loss.tsv file includes mean and max number of intervals stored by the
algorithm. This info is not useful for peak detection but it is useful
for understanding the functional pruning algorithm. For example
plotting the mean number of intervals versus execution time is roughly
linear, which explains why the algorithm takes longer for larger
penalty values.

Bugfix for min-less: only add a constant piece at the end if we need to.

2016.09.25

computeTarget.R -> compute_coverage_target.R which creates
coverage.bedGraph if it does not already exist, and then creates
target.bed if the problem has labels.

problemDB.R -> create_problems.R which now does no computation, but
instead just creates coverage.bedGraph.sh for each problem, which
calls compute_coverage_target.R.

2016.09.23

PeakSegFPOP exits quickly for the special case of penalty=Inf, which
means 0 peaks (1 segment mean with no changes).

New R scripts to help when running PeakSegFPOP on the whole genome.

gap2problems.R inputs chrom sizes and gap info, and outputs a bed file
for each separate segmentation problem.

problemDB.R inputs a segmentation problem bed file and a labels bed
file for one sample, and creates sub-directories for each labeled
segmentation problem.

computeTarget.R inputs a labeled segmentation problem directory, and
runs PeakSegFPOP several times, until the target interval is found.

2016.09.22

output loss file.

2016.08.09

output segments file.

2016.08.08

First Berkeley DB on-disk solver code working.